=== What is the conceptual model about?

A conceptual schema or conceptual data model is a map of concepts and
their relationships. This describes the semantics of a domain and
represents a series of assertions about its nature. Specifically, it
describes the things of significance to a domain (entity classes), about
which it is inclined to collect information, and its characteristics
(attributes) and the associations between pairs of those things of
significance (relationships). This modelâ€™s perspective is independent of
any underlying data format or application.

The Conceptual Model proposes:
* Definition and properties for relevant concepts identified by the geotechnical community, and
* Mapping with existing standards

=== Which standards and versions were considered in this conceptual model?

==== ISO 19148

Linear Referencing Systems enable the specification of positions along
linear objects. The approach is based upon the Generalized Model for
Linear Referencing[12] first standardized within ISO 19133:2005. This
document extends that which was included in ISO 19133, both in
functionality and explanation.

ISO 19109 supports features representing discrete objects with
attributes with values which apply to the entire feature. ISO 19123
allows the attribute value to vary, depending upon the location within a
feature, but does not support the assignment of attribute values to a
single point or length along a linear feature. Linearly located events
provide the mechanism for specifying attribution of linear objects when
the attribute value varies along the length of a linear feature. A
Linear Referencing System is used to specify where along the linear
object each attribute value applies. The same mechanism can be used to
specify where along a linear object another object is located, such as
guardrail or a traffic accident.

It is common practice to segment a linear object with linearly located
events, based upon one or more of its attributes. The resultant linear
segments are attributed with just the attributes used in the
segmentation process, ensuring that the linear segments are homogeneous
in value for these segmenting attributes.

==== OGC Observations, Measurements, and Samples / ISO 19156

This standard specifies an XML implementation for the OGC and ISO
Observations and Measurements (O&M) conceptual model (OGC Observations
and Measurements v2.0 also published as ISO 19156, as well as OGC Abstract Specification Topic 20: Observations, Measurements, and  Samples), including a
schema for Sampling Features. This encoding is an essential dependency
for the OGC Sensor Observation Service (SOS) Interface Standard. More
specifically, this standard defines XML schemas for observations, and
for features involved in sampling when making observations. These
provide document models for the exchange of information describing
observation acts and their results, both within and between different
scientific and technical communities.

More details here: https://www.ogc.org/standards/om

==== OGC GeoSciML 4.1

GeoSciML is a model of geological features commonly described and
portrayed in geological maps, cross sections, geological reports, and
databases. The model was developed by the IUGS CGI (Commission for the
Management and Application of Geoscience Information) and version 4.1 is
the first version officially submitted as an OGC standard. This
specification describes a logical model and GML/XML encoding rules for
the exchange of geological map data, geological time scales, boreholes,
and metadata for laboratory analyses. It includes a Lite model, used for
simple map-based applications; a basic model, aligned on INSPIRE, for
basic data exchange; and an extended model to address more complex
scenarios.

The specification also provides patterns, profiles (most notably of
Observations and Measurements - ISO19156), and best practices to deal
with common geoscience use cases.

More details here: http://geosciml.org/

==== OGC GroundWaterML 2.2

This standard describes a conceptual and logical model for the exchange
of groundwater data, as well as a GML/XML encoding with examples.

More details here: https://www.ogc.org/standards/gwml2

==== OGC LandInfra

The scope of the Land and Infrastructure Conceptual Model is land and
civil engineering infrastructure facilities. Anticipated subject areas
include facilities, projects, alignment, road, railway, survey, land
features, land division, and "`wet`" infrastructure (storm drainage,
wastewater, and water distribution systems). The initial release of this
standard is targeted to support all of these except wet infrastructure.

More details here: https://www.ogc.org/standard/infragml/

==== bSI IFC Tunnel proposal

IFC is a standardized, digital description of the built asset industry.
IFC4.3 is an open, international standard
(https://www.iso.org/standard/70303.html[ISO 16739-1:2018]) and promotes
vendor-neutral, or agnostic, and usable capabilities across a wide range
of hardware devices, software platforms, and interfaces for many
different use cases. More about IFC, its uses and adoption may be found
https://technical.buildingsmart.org/standards/ifc[here].

While geotechnics was first addressed in IFC4.3, major changes are
discussed in the context of the IFC Tunnel project. The mapping that is
described in those pages is based on this discussed proposal and do not
apply to IFC4.3.

==== AGS 4.1

AGS is a text file format used to transfer data reliably, between
organizations in the site investigation industry, independent of
software, hardware or operating system.

In 1991, the AGS set up a method for transferring data between industry
organizations. This is known to many simply as 'AGS Format' or 'AGS
Data Format' and provides a standard way to transfer ground
investigation, laboratory testing and monitoring data between the
contributing parties of a project which involves geotechnical or
geoenvironmental elements.

More details here:
https://www.ags.org.uk/data-format/ags4-data-format/ags-4-1/

==== DIGGS 2.5.a

DIGGS is an XML-based standard for the transfer of geotechnical data.
This current version is limited to ground exploration data derived from
boreholes, soundings, trenches and outcrops, including in-situ testing
and monitoring, and laboratory test data. It is built from the AGS data
dictionary, extending it for US practice, and leverages GML ad WITSML
XML standards for describing spatial and geometric and unit of
measurement symbology, respectively.

More details here:
https://www.geoinstitute.org/special-projects/diggs/schema-tools
