[[geometry-considerations]]
==== Geometries in OGC

This page is about how geometries are currently handled by OGC
standards. OGC Standards consider two- and three-dimensional (2D and 3D)
geometries. All OGC feature (vector) geometries ultimately are based on
the OGC Abstract Specification Topic 1 - Spatial Schema (published as
https://docs.ogc.org/as/17-087r13/17-087r13.html[ISO 19107:2019]).

===== Simple Features (2D)

OGCâ€™s oldest and most-implemented Standard,
https://www.ogc.org/standard/sfa/[Simple Features], describes how to
define and encode 2D feature geometries. Simple Features representation
is used in all other OGC and similar Standards for feature geometry,
including the list below. Simple Features is also the native geometry
for geospatial-enabled commercial and open source database systems.

===== GML (2D and 3D)

As written https://www.ogc.org/standard/gml/[here], the Geography Markup
Language (GML) from OGC is

____
an XML grammar for expressing geographical features. GML serves as a
modeling language for geographic systems as well as an open interchange
format for geographic transactions on the Internet. GML is also an ISO
standard
(http://www.iso.org/iso/iso_catalogue/catalogue_tc/catalogue_detail.htm?csnumber=32554[ISO
19136:2007]).
____

===== GeoJSON (2D)

Contrary to some belief, GeoJSON is not authored by OGC but by the
https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internet_Engineering_Task_Force[IETF]. One
current limitation of GeoJSON is the fact that it is only handling one
coordinate reference system (CRS): EPSG:4326. Yet the big interest of
the internet for JSON based format makes it worth considering.

===== OGC Features and Geometries JSON (2D and 3D)

The work-in-progress OGC Features and Geometries JSON is designed to be
the successor of GeoJSON. It is designed such that it can be used in a
way that is fully backwards-compatible with GeoJSON. It does this by
leaving all fields and structures defined by GeoJSON in place, and only
defining new functionality in new fields that do not conflict with
existing properties.

OGC Features and Geometries JSON will:

* include the ability to use Coordinate Reference Systems (CRSs) other
than WGS84
* follow the
https://portal.opengeospatial.org/files/?artifact_id=76024[OGC Axis
Order Policy],
* allow the use of non-Euclidean metrics, in particular ellipsoidal
metrics,
* support solids and multi-solids as geometry types, and
* provide guidance on how to represent feature properties, e.g.,
including temporal properties.

The development of FG-JSON happens on:
https://github.com/opengeospatial/ogc-feat-geo-json

===== Geo3DML (3D)

In
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0098300417302716[Geo3DML:
A standard-based exchange format for 3D geological models], the China
Geological Survey studied the topic of 3D space geomodels. They proposed
extensions of OGC standards are proposed, especially for geometries.

===== Voxels (3D)

Voxels (or volumetric cells) are a 3D gridded representation of a
volume, with attributed values. Voxels can be expressed directly as
modeled cubes in Standards such as
https://www.ogc.org/standard/citygml/[CityGML] or as datacubes
represented by
https://portal.ogc.org/files/?artifact_id=19820[coverages] or in formats
such as https://www.ogc.org/standard/HDF5/[HDF5] or
https://portal.ogc.org/files/100727[Zarr], amongst others.

===== The concept of gsml:MappedFeature in GeoSciML

The fact that models of the earth and their features can be represented
in different way is something well understood and managed in GeoSciML
thanks to the concept of MappedFeature that is defined
https://docs.ogc.org/is/16-008/16-008.html#41[this way]:

____
A MappedFeature is part of a geological interpretation. It provides a
link between a notional feature (description package) and one spatial
representation of it, or part of it (exposures, surface traces and
intercepts, etc.). The mapped features are the elements that compose a
map, a cross-section, a borehole log, or any other representation. The
mappingFrame identifies the domain being mapped by the geometries. For
typical geological maps, the mapping frame is the surface of the earth
(the 2.5D interface between the surface of the bedrock and whatever sits
on it; atmosphere or overburden material for bedrock maps). It can also
be abstract frames, such as the arbitrary plane that forms a mine level
or a cross-section, the 3D volume enclosing an ore body or the line that
approximate the path of a borehole.
____
