==== Introduction

For the data modelling on the GeoTech IE, in addition to the basic OGC
geospatial standards, the following two standards where of core
interest, strongly guiding the final data model.

===== ISO 19148

Linear Referencing Systems enable the specification of positions along
linear objects. The approach is based upon the Generalized Model for
Linear Referencing[12] first standardized within ISO 19133:2005. This
document extends that which was included in ISO 19133, both in
functionality and explanation.

ISO 19109 supports features representing discrete objects with
attributes with values which apply to the entire feature. ISO 19123
allows the attribute value to vary, depending upon the location within a
feature, but does not support the assignment of attribute values to a
single point or length along a linear feature. Linearly located events
provide the mechanism for specifying attribution of linear objects when
the attribute value varies along the length of a linear feature. A
Linear Referencing System is used to specify where along the linear
object each attribute value applies. The same mechanism can be used to
specify where along a linear object another object is located, such as
guardrail or a traffic accident.

It is common practice to segment a linear object with linearly located
events, based upon one or more of its attributes. The resultant linear
segments are attributed with just the attributes used in the
segmentation process, ensuring that the linear segments are homogeneous
in value for these segmenting attributes.

===== ISO 19156

The Observations, Measurements, and Samples standard (OMS), jointly
prepared and published by the Open Geospatial Consortium and ISO/TC 211
as OGC Abstract Specification Topic 20 (OGC 20-082r4) and ISO
19156:2023, defines a conceptual schema for observations, for features
involved in the observation process, and for features involved in
sampling when making observations. Models support the exchange of
information describing observation acts and their results, both within
and between different scientific and technical communities.

Observations commonly involve sampling of an ultimate
feature-of-interest. OMS defines a common set of sample types according
to their spatial, material (for ex situ observations), or statistical
nature. The Standardâ€™s schema includes relationships between sample
features (sub-sampling, derived samples). It also adds concepts that
were deemed missing in the previous version and provides additional
clarification to the provided concepts and their relationships while
keeping the core data model mostly intact. In addition, a new
fine-grained requirements class structure has been created, enabling
implementations to unambiguously declare the parts of the standard they
conform to.

The abstract data models described in OMS provide common concepts and
logical structures for exchanging observational data and metadata
between various information systems as well as for harmonized handling
of such information from various heterogeneous sources. Technical
implementation standards and profiles, on the other hand, provide
concrete solutions tailored for storing, exchanging and processing OMS
information in particular technical environments and use cases.

The work on revising existing OMS-related OGC Implementation Standards
to fully comply with the OGC 20-082r4 requirements is in progress in
OGC, including Sensor Things API and Timeseries Markup Language. Work is
also underway for harmonization between the already closely related OMS
and the W3C SSN/SOSA Standards. New OGC Implementation Standards are
being pursued for OMS JSON encoding and OMS related dataset metadata led
by the OGC OMS Standards Working Group.

The OMS family of Standards contribute to the FAIR (Findable,
Accessible, Interoperable, Reusable) principles for various kinds of
measurable information, including environmental monitoring as well as
remote and in-situ sensing by providing a common conceptual framework
for discovering, collecting, and analyzing related information from
various sources and data providers.

===== Geotech concepts which might use ISO 19148 and ISO 19156

Those data models and the extensions designed for them are proposed in
order to realize all the concepts listed in <<Book-A-organization-and-components>>, including:

* <<Observation>>
* <<Sampling-and-Preparatio>>
* <<Borehole>>
* <<MaterialSample>>

//end of section fix