[[MaterialSample]]
==== MaterialSample

A MaterialSample is a physical, tangible Sample.

===== Realizations

[width="100%",cols="34%,33%,33%",options="header",]
|===
|Data model |Concept name |Definition
|OGC OMS |MaterialSample |A MaterialSample is a physical, tangible
Sample.

|IFC |MaterialSample
|Same as OGC OMS

|AGS |SAMP |SAMP includes information for both the sample and the
sampling activity

|DIGGS |Sample |A material sample, either solid, fluid, or gas that is
obtained as a result of a sampling activity, for the purpose of
observation and/or testing. This is a concrete representation of
AbstractSample, which serves as the head of a substitution group for
this and other sample specialties.

|DIGGS |TrialGroutBatch |A specialization of Sample that also contains
properties describing the characteristics of a batch of grout developed
for testing to determine a grout design mix.

|DIGGS |GroutBatch |A specialization of Sample that contains properties
describing the characteristics of a batch of grout used for production
purposes. This object must reference a DesignGroutMix object defined
within the GroutingProgram feature.

|DIGGS |AbstractSpecimen |AbstractSpecimen serves as the head of a
substitution group for specimen specializations based on state or type:
eg. soil, liquid, gas, rock. A specimen derives from one or more
samples, is created as part of a test procedure, and exists only in the
context of the test procedure that creates it.

|DIGGS |GroutSpecimen |A specialization of a specimen that describes the
physical conditions of a grout or concrete sample subjected to testing.

|DIGGS |FluidSpecimen |A specialization of a specimen that describes the
physical conditions of a fluid sample or samples subjected to testing.

|DIGGS |RockSpecimen |A specialization of a specimen that describes the
physical conditions of a rock sample or samples subjected to testing.

|DIGGS |SoilSpecimen |A specialization of a specimen that describes the
physical conditions of a soil sample or samples subjected to testing.
|===

===== Properties

[width="100%",cols="3%,97%",options="header",]
|===
|PropertyName |Definition
|intermalIdentifier |The value of this property is the identifier
originally created by the authority for this feature, or that is used as
the identifier in the authorityâ€™s internal data management system. There
is no assumption as to the unique scope or persistence of this
identifier. In cases where the original or internal identifier does not
meet the semantic requirements or gml:id or gml:identifier, the internal
identifier may be included in this property in order for the originating
authority to "`map back`" the identifier to an internal data management
system. The codeSpace attribute must be populated to identify the
authority that uses the internalIdentifier value.

|chainOfCustodyEvent |Contains information on the chain-of-custody for
the sample

|relatedSample |Another Sample the context Sample is related to

|purpose |

|status |A text string to provide information about the status of the
object to be used to track QA/QC controls, review or release status,
etc. The values used are intended to come from a controlled list of
terms maintained by an organization.

|role |Identifies a specific role or task performed that is associated
with this specific feature, the person or organization that performed the
role, and associated time frame, if applicable.

|classification |A definition of the class of sample collected or
produced, such assoil, rock, fluid, etc.)

|sampleType |Type of sample. Shall refer to a codelist.

|size |The size describes a physical extent of the MaterialSample.

|sampleWeight |Weight of the sample following collection or production
and prior to any subsampling or specimen preparation

|sampleVolume |Volume of the sample following collection or production
and prior to any subsampling or specimen preparation

|sampleDimensions |For solid soil or rock samples, contains properties
of the sample dimensions

|samplingActivityRef |A reference to a sampling activity that is
associated with this feature.

|sampledFeatureRef |A reference to the sampled object (if any).

|metadata |Identifies external files associated with this feature. This
allows for the feature to be further elaborated with information that
cannot be represented by ASCII text, such as a photograph or other
media, binary data, or a formatted report.

|extrusionMethod |Method by which the sample is removed from its
sampler.

|sourceLocation |The sourceLocation is the location from where the
MaterialSample was obtained.

|sampler |a device or entity (including humans) that is used by, or
implements, a SamplingProcedure to create or transform one or more
Sample(s).

|SampleDepthRange |Top and bottom depths where a sample was retrieved
|===

===== FAQ

====== What about Specimen?

In geotechnics, a distinction may appear between the MaterialSample
collected on the field and another MaterialSample made from it by
sub-sampling. The first one is often called Sample, while the second(s)
is/are often called Specimen(s).

Here in this conceptual model, the term MaterialSample is generic and
can be used for both. Attributes can be used to explain the lineage
between two (or more) MaterialSample.

Standards like DIGGS yet propose an explicit terminology.

====== What about Sampling?

The sampling activity can be described with <<Sampling>>

====== GitHub issue

https://github.com/opengeospatial/Geotech/issues/11
