[[Sampling-and-Preparation]]
==== Sampling and Preparation

Sampling is an act applying a SamplingProcedure to create or transform
one or more MaterialSamples.

Sampling Procedure is a description of steps performed by a Sampler in
order to extract a Sample from its sampledFeature in the frame of a
Sampling.

Preparation Procedure is the description of preparation steps performed
on a Sample.

===== Realizations

[width="100%",cols="34%,33%,33%",options="header",]
|===
|Data model |Concept name |Definition
|OGC OMS |Sampling |Sampling is an act applying a SamplingProcedure to
create or transform one or more Sample(s).

|OGC OMS |SamplingProcedure |Sampling Procedure is a description of
steps performed by a Sampler in order to extract a Sample from its
sampledFeature in the frame of a Sampling.

|OGC OMS |PreparationProcedure |Sampling is an act applying a
SamplingProcedure to create or transform one or more Sample(s).

|AGS |SAMP |SAMP includes information for both the sample and the
sampling activity

|DIGGS |SamplingActivity |The action taken to obtain or produce material
samples even if the activity fails to produce a sample (eg. a core run
that produces no recovery). The activity type must be specified, and
indicates if the produced sample(s) are a result of collection at a
sampling feature, sub-sampling, aggregation of two or more samples, or a
sample created as a test or blank sample. All samples must refer to a
SamplingActivity feature. SamplingActivity is restricted to the
collection or creation of a new material sample, or a subsampling or
aggregation of existing collected or created samples. The activity of
transforming a material sample into a specimen that is being tested is
described in the preparationProcedure property of a specimen object that
derives from an existing material sample.

|DIGGS |AbstractSpecimen |AbstractSpecimen serves as the head of a
substitution group for specimen specializations based on state or type:
eg. soil, liquid, gas, rock. A specimen derives from one or more
samples, is created as part of a test procedure, and exists only in the
context of the test procedure that creates it.
|===

===== Properties

[width="100%",cols="3%,97%",options="header",]
|===
|PropertyName |Definition
|intermalIdentifier |The value of this property is the identifier
originally created by the authority for this feature, or that is used as
the identifier in the authorityâ€™s internal data management system. There
is no assumption as to the unique scope or persistence of this
identifier. In cases where the original or internal identifier does not
meet the semantic requirements or gml:id or gml:identifier, the internal
identifier may be included in this property in order for the originating
authority to "`map back`" the identifier to an internal data management
system. The codeSpace attribute must be populated to identify the
authority that uses the internalIdentifier value.

|samplingFeatureRef |Pointer to the associated sampling feature object
(eg. borehole, etc.

|sourceSampleRef |A reference to a sample or samples that are used to
create the sample(s) (identified in the sampleProduced property)
produced by this activity. This element is only used for activities that
subsample or aggregate samples from other samples. For aggregate
samples, the percentage attribute optionally defines how much of the
total new sample is composed from the source sample.

| |

|status |A text string to provide information about the status of the
object to be used to track QA/QC controls, review or release status,
etc. The values used are intended to come from a controlled list of
terms maintained by an organization.

|role |Identifies a specific role or task performed that is associated
with this specific feature, the person or organization that performed the
role, and associated time frame, if applicable.

|activityType |A controlled list that indicates the classification of
sampling activity. Can be used by applications to validate other
activity info. One of the following strings must be used:collect -
activity created a sample or samples by collection from a sampling
feature;aggregate - activity created a sample or samples by aggregating
existing samples; the associated Sample(s) should contain more than one
sourceSampleRef;subsample - activity created a sample or samples by
subsampling an existing sample; only one sourceSampleRef should be
specified for the related Sample(s);test - activity produced a test,
standard or blank sample that does not relate to any field sample or
sampling feature; activity will point to a project but no
sourceSampleRef nor samplingFeatureRef should be specified for the
associated Sample(s);none - the sample activity failed to produce any
physical sample;unknown - used where no information about the sampling
activity exists (eg. for legacy data where only sample name or label and
location (depth) exists).

|purpose |Purpose for this activity. This is an uncontrolled string that
describes the test or tests that are intended to be run on the sample(s)
generated from this activity.

|samplingDate |The date/time that encompasses the entire time over which
sampling occurred.

|associatedFile |Identifies external files associated with this feature.
This allows for the feature to be further elaborated with information
that cannot be represented by ASCII text, such as a photograph or other
media, binary data, or a formatted report.

| |

|samplingEquipment |A property element that contains a generic or
specialized Equipment object (or reference to one) that details the
sampling equipment used

|samplingMethod |A property that contains a Specification object
detailing the method of sampling

|coringPushPressure |For coring activities, the push pressure reported
as a single value

|coringPushPressureMin |For reporting coring push pressure as a range,
this property holds the minimum pressure value.

|coringPushPressureMax |For reporting coring push pressure as a range,
this property holds the maximum pressure value.

|samplerInsertionMethod |For sampling of soil or rock, the means by
which the sampler is inserted into the ground. From a controlled list
(eg. pushed, driven, etc.

|mixingTime |For sampling activities that involve blending samples in
aggregation (such as soil-cement mixtures), this property carries the
time duration to mix the sample together.

| |

|sampleProduced |Identifies the samples, and the time and location(s) of
samples (optional) that are produced by this sampling activity

|solidCoreRecoveryLength |For rock cores, the sum of the lengths of
solid, cylindrical, core pieces

|lengthLongestPortion |For rock cores, the Length of the longest solid,
cylindrical core piece of the sample

|rockQualityDesignationLength |For rock cores, the sum of length of core
pieces that are > 100 mm (4 inches) measured along the centerline

|samplingEnvironment |Contains a component object that is a collection
of environmental parameters recorded at a specific time instant during
the sampling.

|totalSampleRecoveryLength |For soil or rock cores, this property is the
length of the total amount of sample recovered during the activity. If
no sample is recovered, this value is 0.

| |

|otherSamplingActivityProperty |A property that contains a Parameter
object whereby ancillary metadata about the sampling activity can be
reported as name-value pairs

| |

| |

|samplingLocation |Location of the sampling activity
|===
